
URL_Of_PAGE:
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukdsi/2024/9780348265514/introduction
Draft Order in Council laid before the House of Commons under section 173(7) of the Finance Act 2006 and section 5(2) of the Taxation (International and Other Provisions) Act 2010, for approval by resolution of that House.
DRAFT STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS
2024 No.***
CAPITAL GAINS TAX
CORPORATION TAX
INCOME TAX
The Double Taxation Relief and International Tax Enforcement (Ecuador) Order 2024
Made
***
At the Court at Buckingham Palace, the *** day of ***
Present,
The King’s Most Excellent Majesty in Council
A draft of this Order was laid before the House of Commons in accordance with section 173(7) of the Finance Act 2006(1) and section 5(2) of the Taxation (International and Other Provisions) Act 2010(2) and approved by resolution of that House.
Accordingly, His Majesty, in exercising the powers conferred on Him by section 173(1) to (3) of the Finance Act 2006 and section 2 of the Taxation (International and Other Provisions) Act 2010(3), by and with the advice of His Privy Council, orders as follows—
(1)
2006 c. 25.
(2)
2010 c. 8.
(3)
Section 2 was amended by section 32(1) of the Finance Act 2018 (c. 3).
URL_Of_PAGE:
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukdsi/2024/9780348265514/article/1
Citation
1.  This Order may be cited as the Double Taxation Relief and International Tax Enforcement (Ecuador) Order 2024.
URL_Of_PAGE:
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukdsi/2024/9780348265514/article/2
Double taxation and international tax enforcement arrangements to have effect
2.  It is declared that—
(a)
the arrangements specified in the Convention and Protocol set out in the Schedule to this Order have been made with the Government of the Republic of Ecuador;
(b)
those arrangements have been made with a view to affording relief from double taxation in relation to income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, and taxes of a similar character imposed by the laws of the Government of the Republic of Ecuador, and relate to international tax enforcement; and
(c)
it is expedient that those arrangements should have effect.
URL_Of_PAGE:
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukdsi/2024/9780348265514/signature
Name
Clerk of the Privy Council
URL_Of_PAGE:
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukdsi/2024/9780348265514/schedule
Article 2
SCHEDULE
CONVENTION
BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED
KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND
AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBLE TAXATION WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON INCOME AND ON CAPITAL GAINS AND THE PREVENTION OF TAX EVASION AND AVOIDANCE
The Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ecuador;
Desiring to further develop their economic relationship and to enhance their cooperation in tax matters;
Intending to conclude a Convention for the elimination of double taxation with respect to taxes on income and on capital gains without creating opportunities for non-taxation or reduced taxation through tax evasion or avoidance (including through treaty-shopping arrangements aimed at obtaining reliefs provided in this Convention for the indirect benefit of residents of third States);
Have agreed as follows:
CHAPTER I
Scope of the Convention
Article 1
Persons covered
1.  This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
2.  For the purposes of this Convention, income or gains derived by or through an entity or arrangement that is treated as wholly or partly fiscally transparent under the tax law of either Contracting State shall be considered to be income or gains of a resident of a Contracting State but only to the extent that the income or gain is treated, for purposes of taxation by that State, as the income or gain of a resident of that State.
3.  This Convention shall not affect the taxation, by a Contracting State, of its residents except with respect to the benefits granted under paragraph 2 of Article 9 and Articles 19, 20, 22, 23, 24 and 27.
Article 2
Taxes covered
1.  This Convention shall apply to taxes on income and on capital gains imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2.  There shall be regarded as taxes on income and on capital gains all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, including taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property.
3.  The existing taxes to which the Convention shall apply are in particular:
(a)
in Ecuador:
(i)
the income tax
(hereinafter referred as ”Ecuadorian tax”);
(b)
in the United Kingdom:
(i)
the income tax;
(ii)
the corporation tax; and
(iii)
the capital gains tax;
(hereinafter referred to as “United Kingdom tax”).
4.  The Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date of signature of the Convention in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes that have been made in their taxation laws.
CHAPTER II
Definitions
Article 3
General definitions
1.  For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
the term “Ecuador” means the Republic of Ecuador and when used in a geographical sense, includes its territorial sea thereof, subsoil and other territories over which Ecuador exercises sovereignty, sovereign rights or jurisdiction in accordance with both its Constitution and international law;
(b)
the term ”United Kingdom” means Great Britain and Northern Ireland but, when used in a geographical sense, means the territory and territorial sea of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the areas beyond that territorial sea over which Great Britain and Northern Ireland exercise sovereign rights or jurisdiction in accordance with both their domestic law and international law;
(c)
the terms “a Contracting State” and “the other Contracting State” mean Ecuador or the United Kingdom, as the context requires;
(d)
the term “person” includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons;
(e)
the term “company” means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(f)
the terms “enterprise of a Contracting State” and “enterprise of the other Contracting State” mean respectively an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other Contracting State;
(g)
the term ”international traffic” means any transport by a ship or aircraft, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in a Contracting State and the enterprise that operates the ship or aircraft is not an enterprise of that State;
(h)
the term “competent authority” means:
(i)
in Ecuador, the General Director of the Internal Revenue Service (Servicio de Rentas Internas) or his authorized representative;
(ii)
in the United Kingdom, the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs or their authorised representative;
(i)
the term “national” means:
(i)
in relation to Ecuador any individual possessing the nationality or citizenship of Ecuador; and any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in Ecuador;
(ii)
in relation to the United Kingdom, any British citizen, or any British subject not possessing the citizenship of any other Commonwealth country or territory, provided he has the right of abode in the United Kingdom; and any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in the United Kingdom;
(j)
the term “pension scheme” of a State means an entity or arrangement established in that State that is treated as a separate person under the taxation laws of that State and:
(i)
that is established and operated exclusively or almost exclusively to administer or provide retirement benefits and ancillary or incidental benefits to individuals and that is regulated as such by that State or one of its political subdivisions or local authorities; or
(ii)
that is established and operated exclusively or almost exclusively to invest funds for the benefit of entities or arrangements referred to in subdivision (i).
Where an arrangement established in a Contracting State would constitute a recognised pension scheme under subdivision (i) or (ii) if it were treated as a separate person under the taxation laws of that State, it shall be considered, for the purposes of this Convention, as a separate person treated as such under the taxation laws of that State and all the assets, income, and gains to which the arrangement applies shall be treated as assets held by, and income and gains derived by, that separate person and not by another person.
2.  As regards the application of the Convention at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall, unless the context otherwise requires have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the purposes of the taxes to which this Convention applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
Article 4
Resident
1.  For the purposes of this Convention, the term “resident of a Contracting State” means any person who, under the laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management, place of incorporation or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State and any political subdivision or local authority thereof. This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of income or capital gains from sources in that State.
2.  The term “resident of a Contracting State” includes:
(a)
a pension scheme established in that State; and
(b)
an organisation that is established and is operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, cultural, or educational purposes (or for more than one of those purposes) and that is a resident of that State according to its laws, notwithstanding that all or part of its income or gains may be exempt from tax under the domestic law of that State.
3.  Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then the status of that individual shall be determined as follows:
(a)
the individual shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which a permanent home is available to the individual; if a permanent home is available to the individual in both States, the individual shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State with which the individual’s personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
(b)
if the State in which the centre of vital interests of the individual cannot be determined, or if the individual has not a permanent home available in either State, the individual shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which the individual has an habitual abode;
(c)
if the individual has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, the individual shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State of which the individual is a national;
(d)
if the individual is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
4.  Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to determine by mutual agreement the Contracting State of which such person shall be deemed to be a resident for the purposes of the Convention, having regard to its place of effective management, the place where it is incorporated or otherwise constituted and any other relevant factors. In the absence of such agreement, such person shall not be entitled to any relief or exemption from tax provided by this Convention, except to the extent and in such manner as may be agreed upon by the competent authorities of the Contracting States.
Article 5
Permanent establishment
1.  For the purposes of this Convention, the term “permanent establishment” means a fixed place of business through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2.  The term “permanent establishment” includes especially:
(a)
a place of management;
(b)
a branch;
(c)
an office;
(d)
a factory;
(e)
a place used as a sales outlet;
(f)
a workshop; and
(g)
a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction or exploration of natural resources.
3.  The term “permanent establishment” also encompasses:
(a)
a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project or supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only if such site, project or activities lasts more than 183 days;
(b)
the furnishing of services, by an enterprise through employees or other personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only if activities of that nature continue (for the same or a connected project) within a Contracting State for a period or periods aggregating more than 183 days in any twelve-month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, unless the services are limited to the activities mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if performed through a fixed place of business (other than a fixed place of business to which paragraph 5 would apply), would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that paragraph. For the purposes of this sub-paragraph, services performed by individuals who are employed or engaged by one enterprise shall not be considered to be performed by another enterprise through those individuals unless that other enterprise supervises, directs or controls the manner in which these services are performed by the individuals.
4.  Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term “permanent establishment” shall be deemed not to include:
(a)
the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;
(b)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage or display;
(c)
the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;
(d)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of collecting information, for the enterprise;
(e)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character;
(f)
the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs a) to e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.
5.  Paragraph 4 shall not apply to a fixed place of business that is used or maintained by an enterprise if the same enterprise or a closely related enterprise carries on business activities at the same place or at another place in the same Contracting State and
(a)
that place or other place constitutes a permanent establishment for the enterprise or the closely related enterprise under the provisions of this Article, or
(b)
the overall activity resulting from the combination of the activities carried on by the two enterprises at the same place, or by the same enterprise or closely related enterprises at the two places, is not of a preparatory or auxiliary character,
provided that the business activities carried on by the two enterprises at the same place, or by the same enterprise or closely related enterprises at the two places, constitute complementary functions that are part of a cohesive business operation.
6.  For the purposes of paragraph 5, an enterprise is closely related to an enterprise if, based on all the relevant facts and circumstances, one has control of the other or both are under the control of the same persons or enterprises. In any case, an enterprise shall be considered to be closely related to an enterprise if one possesses directly or indirectly more than 50 per cent of the beneficial interest in the other (or, in the case of a company, more than 50 per cent of the aggregate vote and value of the company’s shares or of the beneficial equity interest in the company) or if a person or another enterprise possesses directly or indirectly more than 50 per cent of the beneficial interest (or, in the case of a company, more than 50 per cent of the aggregate vote and value of the company’s shares or of the beneficial equity interest in the company) in the two enterprises.
7.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent status to whom paragraph 8 applies - is acting on behalf of an enterprise and has, and habitually exercises, in a Contracting State an authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the enterprise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in that Contracting State in respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 of this Article which, if exercised through a fixed place of business (other than a fixed place of business to which paragraph 5 of this Article would apply), would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that paragraph.
8.  An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, and conditions are made or imposed between that enterprise and the agent in their commercial and financial relations which differ from those which would have been made between independent enterprises, he will not be considered an agent of an independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
9.  The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
CHAPTER III
Taxation of Income
Article 6
Income from immovable property
1.  Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2.  The term “immovable property” shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property, livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships and aircraft shall not be regarded as immovable property.
3.  The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of immovable property.
4.  The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
Business profits
1.  The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is attributable to that permanent establishment.
2.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3.  In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are incurred for the purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere.
4.  No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
5.  For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6.  Where profits include items of income or gains which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Convention, then the provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
International shipping and air transport
1.  Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in that State.
2.  For the purposes of this Article, profits from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic include:
(a)
profits from the rental on a bareboat basis of ships or aircraft; and
(b)
profits from the use, maintenance or rental of containers (including trailers and related equipment for the transport of containers) used for the transport of goods or merchandise;
where such rental or such use, maintenance or rental, as the case may be, is incidental to the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic.
3.  The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an international operating agency.
Article 9
Associated enterprises
1.  Where
(a)
an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
(b)
the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2.  Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State – and taxes accordingly – profits on which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
Article 10
Dividends
1.  Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2.  However, dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State:
(a)
may also be taxed in that State according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed:
(i)
5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company which holds, directly or indirectly, at least 25 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividends and where (iii) and (iv) do not apply; or
(ii)
10 percent of the gross amount of the dividends in cases where (i), (iii) and (iv) do not apply; or
(iii)
15 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends where those dividends are paid out of income or gains derived directly or indirectly from immovable property, within the meaning of Article 6, by an investment vehicle which distributes most of this income annually and whose income from such immovable property is exempted from tax; or
(iv)
15 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends where they are paid by a company resident in Ecuador and that company has failed to comply with its obligations to report details of the ownership chain up to its ultimate beneficial owners in accordance with Ecuadorian law and regulations.
(b)
shall not be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a pension scheme established in the other Contracting State, notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph a).
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3.  The term “dividends” as used in this Article means income from shares, or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in profits, as well as any other item which is treated as income from shares by the taxation laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4.  The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other Contracting State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5.  Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with a permanent establishment or fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company’s undistributed profits to a tax on undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in that other State.
Article 11
Interest
1.  Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2.  However, interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State and beneficially owned by a resident of the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in that other State where that resident is:
(a)
the government, political subdivision or local authority of that State, or any agency or other entity that is wholly-owned by the government, a political subdivision or a local authority of that State
(b)
the Central Bank of that State, which in the case of the United Kingdom means the Bank of England and in the case of Ecuador means the Central Bank of Ecuador
(c)
a financial institution
(d)
a pension scheme.
4.  The term “interest” as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor’s profits, and in particular, income from government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such securities, bonds or debentures. The term shall not include any item which is treated as a dividend under the provisions of Article 10.
5.  The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6.  Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
7.  Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the amount of the interest paid exceeds, for whatever reason, the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 12
Royalties
1.  Royalties arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2.  However, royalties may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties.
3.  The term “royalties” as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process or breeder’s right of new varieties of plants, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience.
4.  The provisions of paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties arise through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5.  Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties was incurred, and such royalties are borne by such permanent establishment, or fixed base, then such royalties shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
6.  Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the amount of the royalties paid exceeds, for whatever reason, the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
Article 13
Capital gains
1.  Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6 and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2.  Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of shares or comparable interests, such as interests in a partnership or trust, deriving more than 50 per cent of their value directly or indirectly from immovable property, as defined in Article 6, situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
3.  Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
4.  Gains that an enterprise of a Contracting State that operates ships or aircraft in international traffic derives from the alienation of such ships or aircraft, or of movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in that Contracting State.
5.  Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
Independent Personal Services
1.  Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State in respect of professional services or other activities of an independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following circumstances, when such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State:
(a)
if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities; in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other State; or
(b)
if his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve-month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; in that case, only so much of the income as is derived from his activities performed in that other State may be taxed in that other State.
2.  The term “professional services” includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists, accountants, consultants and auditors.
Article 15
Income from employment
1.  Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18, and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom may be taxed in that other State.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if:
(a)
the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; and
(b)
the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State; and
(c)
the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other State.
3.  Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment, as a member of the regular complement of a ship or aircraft, that is exercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic, other than aboard a ship or aircraft operated solely within the other Contracting State, shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State.
Article 16
Directors’ fees
Directors’ fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
Article 17
Entertainers and sportspersons
1.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from that resident’s personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2.  Where income in respect of or in connection with personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson acting as such accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or sportsperson are exercised.
3.  The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to income derived from activities exercised in a Contracting State by an entertainer or sportsperson if the visit to that State is wholly supported by public funds of one or both of the Contracting States or political subdivisions or local authorities or statutory bodies thereof. In such case, the income shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the artiste or the sportsman is a resident.
Article 18
Pensions
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration paid to a resident of a Contracting State, shall be taxable only in that State.
2.  Contributions made by or on behalf of an individual who exercises employment or self-employment in a Contracting State (“the host state”) to a pension scheme that is recognised for tax purposes in the other Contracting State (“the home state”) shall, for the purposes of:
(a)
determining the individual’s tax payable in the host state; and
(b)
determining the profits of his employer which may be taxed in the host state;
be treated in that State in the same way and subject to the same conditions and limitations as contributions made to a pension scheme that is recognised for tax purposes in the host state, to the extent that they are not so treated by the home state.
3.  The provisions of paragraph 2 shall apply only if:
(a)
the individual was not a resident of the host state, and was participating in the pension scheme (or in another similar pension scheme for which the first-mentioned pension scheme was substituted), immediately before he began to exercise employment or self-employment in the host state; and
(b)
the pension scheme is accepted by the competent authority of the host state as generally corresponding to a pension scheme recognised as such for tax purposes by that State.
4.  For the purposes of this Article, a pension scheme is recognised for tax purposes in a Contracting State if contributions to the scheme would qualify for tax relief in that State if they were made by the individual.
Article 19
Government service
(1) (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration paid by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.
(b)
However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
(i)
is a national of that State; or
(ii)
did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services;
and is subject to tax in that State on such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration.
(2) (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions and other similar remuneration paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.
(b)
However, such pensions and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a national of, that State.
(3) The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages, pensions, and other similar remuneration in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof.
Article 20
Students
Payments which a student or business apprentice who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the purpose of his education or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in that State, provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.
Article 21
Other income
1.  Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2.  The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
3.  Where, by reason of a special relationship between the resident referred to in paragraph 1 and some other person, or between both of them and some third person, the amount of the income referred to in that paragraph exceeds the amount (if any) which would have been agreed upon between them in the absence of such a relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such a case, the excess part of the income shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other applicable provisions of this Convention.
4.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Convention and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.
CHAPTER IV
Methods for the Elimination of Double Taxation
Article 22
Elimination of double taxation
1.  In the case of the Republic of Ecuador: Where a resident of Ecuador derives items of income which may be taxed in the United Kingdom in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, Ecuador shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the tax paid in the United Kingdom. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to such items of income derived from the United Kingdom.
2.  Subject to the provisions of the law of the United Kingdom regarding the allowance as a credit against United Kingdom tax of tax payable in a territory outside the United Kingdom or, as the case may be, regarding the exemption from United Kingdom tax of a dividend arising in a territory outside the United Kingdom or of the profits of a permanent establishment situated in a territory outside the United Kingdom (which shall not affect the general principle hereof):
(a)
Ecuadorian tax payable under the laws of Ecuador and in accordance with this Convention, whether directly or by deduction, on profits, income or chargeable gains from sources within Ecuador (excluding in the case of a dividend tax payable in respect of the profits out of which the dividend is paid) shall be allowed as a credit against any United Kingdom tax computed by reference to the same profits, income or chargeable gains by reference to which the Ecuadorian tax is computed;
(b)
a dividend which is paid by a company which is a resident of Ecuador to a company which is a resident of the United Kingdom shall be exempted from United Kingdom tax when the exemption is applicable and the conditions for exemption under the law of the United Kingdom are met;
(c)
the profits of a permanent establishment in Ecuador of a company which is a resident of the United Kingdom shall be exempted from United Kingdom tax when the exemption is applicable and the conditions for exemption under the law of the United Kingdom are met;
(d)
in the case of a dividend not exempted from tax under sub-paragraph b) above which is paid by a company which is a resident of Ecuador to a company which is a resident of the United Kingdom and which controls directly or indirectly at least 10 per cent of the voting power in the company paying the dividend, the credit mentioned in sub-paragraph a) above shall also take into account the Ecuadorian tax payable by the company in respect of its profits out of which such dividend is paid.
For the purposes of this paragraph, profits, income and gains owned by a resident of the United Kingdom which may be taxed in Ecuador in accordance with this Convention shall be deemed to arise from sources in Ecuador.
3.  The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply where the United Kingdom tax payable is in accordance with the provisions of this Convention solely because the income referred to in that paragraph is also income, profits or chargeable gains derived by a resident of the United Kingdom.
4.  The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not apply where the Ecuadorian tax payable is in accordance with the provisions of this Convention solely because the income, profits or chargeable gains referred to in that paragraph is also income derived by a resident of Ecuador.
CHAPTER V
Special Provisions
Article 23
Non-discrimination
1.  Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be subjected.
2.  Stateless persons who are residents of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in either Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which nationals of the State concerned in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be subjected.
3.  The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State carrying on the same activities.
4.  Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, paragraph 6 of Article 12 or paragraph 3 of Article 21 apply, interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
5.  Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
6.  Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed as obliging either Contracting State to grant to individuals not resident in that State any of the personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for tax purposes which are granted to individuals so resident or to its nationals.
Article 24
Mutual agreement procedure
1.  Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, that person may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of either Contracting State. The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of the Convention.
2.  The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with this Convention. Any agreement reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3.  The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of this Convention. They may also consult together for the elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Convention.
4.  The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs.
Article 25
Exchange of information
1.  The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeably relevant for carrying out the provisions of this Convention or to the administration or enforcement of domestic laws concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Convention. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2.
2.  Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to, the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, information received by a Contracting State may be used for other purposes when such information may be used for such other purposes under the laws of both States and the competent authority of the supplying State authorises such use.
3.  In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;
(b)
to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the other Contracting State;
(c)
to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade process, or information the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
4.  If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall use its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not need such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.
5.  In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in an agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.
Article 26
Assistance in the collection of taxes
1.  The Contracting States shall lend assistance to each other in the collection of revenue claims. This assistance is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may by mutual agreement settle the mode of application of this Article.
2.  The term “revenue claim” as used in this Article means an amount owed in respect of taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to this Convention or any other instrument to which the Contracting States are parties, as well as interest, administrative penalties and costs of collection or conservancy related to such amount.
3.  When a revenue claim of a Contracting State is enforceable under the laws of that State and is owed by a person who, at that time, cannot, under the laws of that State, prevent its collection, that revenue claim shall, at the request of the competent authority of that State, be accepted for purposes of collection by the competent authority of the other Contracting State. That revenue claim shall be collected by that other State in accordance with the provisions of its laws applicable to the enforcement and collection of its own taxes as if the revenue claim were a revenue claim of that other State.
4.  When a revenue claim of a Contracting State is a claim in respect of which that State may, under its law, take measures of conservancy with a view to ensure its collection, that revenue claim shall, at the request of the competent authority of that State, be accepted for purposes of taking measures of conservancy by the competent authority of the other Contracting State. That other State shall take measures of conservancy in respect of that revenue claim in accordance with the provisions of its laws as if the revenue claim were a revenue claim of that other State even if, at the time when such measures are applied, the revenue claim is not enforceable in the first-mentioned State or is owed by a person who has a right to prevent its collection.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4, a revenue claim accepted by a Contracting State for the purposes of paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in that State, be subject to the time limits or accorded any priority applicable to a revenue claim under the laws of that State by reason of its nature as such. In addition, a revenue claim accepted by a Contracting State for the purposes of paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in that State, have any priority applicable to that revenue claim under the laws of the other Contracting State.
6.  Proceedings with respect to the existence, validity or the amount of a revenue claim of a Contracting State shall not be brought before the courts or administrative bodies of the other Contracting State.
7.  Where, at any time after a request has been made by a Contracting State under paragraph 3 or 4 and before the other Contracting State has collected and remitted the relevant revenue claim to the first-mentioned State, the relevant revenue claim ceases to be:
(a)
in the case of a request under paragraph 3, a revenue claim of the first-mentioned State that is enforceable under the laws of that State and is owed by a person who, at that time, cannot, under the laws of that State, prevent its collection, or
(b)
in the case of a request under paragraph 4, a revenue claim of the first-mentioned State in respect of which that State may, under its laws, take measures of conservancy with a view to ensure its collection
the competent authority of the first-mentioned State shall promptly notify the competent authority of the other State of that fact and, at the option of the other State, the first-mentioned State shall either suspend or withdraw its request.
8.  In no case shall the provisions of this Article be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:
(a)
to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;
(b)
to carry out measures which would be contrary to public policy;
(c)
to provide assistance if the other Contracting State has not pursued all reasonable measures of collection or conservancy, as the case may be, available under its laws or administrative practice;
(d)
to provide assistance in those cases where the administrative burden for that State is clearly disproportionate to the benefit to be derived by the other Contracting State;
(e)
to provide assistance if that State considers that the taxes with respect to which assistance is requested are imposed contrary to generally accepted taxation principles.
Article 27
Members of diplomatic missions
and consular posts
Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 28
Entitlement to benefits
1.  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Convention, a benefit under this Convention shall not be granted in respect of an item of income or a capital gain if it is reasonable to conclude, having regard to all relevant facts and circumstances, that obtaining that benefit was one of the principal purposes of any arrangement or transaction that resulted directly or indirectly in that benefit, unless it is established that granting that benefit in these circumstances would be in accordance with the object and purpose of the relevant provisions of this Convention.
2.  Where a benefit under this Convention is denied to a person under paragraph 1, the competent authority of the Contracting State that would otherwise have granted this benefit shall nevertheless treat that person as being entitled to this benefit, or to different benefits with respect to a specific item of income or a capital gain, if such competent authority, upon request from that person and after consideration of the relevant facts and circumstances, determines that such benefits would have been granted to that person in the absence of the transaction or arrangement referred to in paragraph 1. The competent authority of the Contracting State to which the request has been made will consult with the competent authority of the other State before rejecting a request made under this paragraph by a resident of that other State.
CHAPTER VI
Final Provisions
Article 29
Entry into force
1.  Each of the Contracting States shall notify the other, through diplomatic channels, of the completion of the procedures required by its law for the bringing into force of this Convention. This Convention shall enter into force on the date of the later of these notifications and shall thereupon have effect:
(a)
in Ecuador:
in respect of taxes on income obtained and amounts to be paid, credited to account, made available or recorded as an expense, on or after 1st January of the calendar year immediately following the year in which the Convention enters into force; and
(b)
in the United Kingdom:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after 1st January of the calendar year immediately following the year in which the Convention enters into force;
(ii)
in respect of income tax and capital gains tax, for any year of assessment beginning on or after 6th April next following the date on which this Convention enters into force;
(iii)
in respect of corporation tax, for any financial year beginning on or after 1st April next following the date on which this Convention enters into force.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, Article 25 (Exchange of information) shall have effect from the date of entry into force of this Convention, without regard to the taxable period to which the matter relates.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 the provisions of Article 26 (Assistance in the collection of taxes) shall not have effect until Ecuador confirms through diplomatic channels that it is able to provide such assistance under its domestic law whereupon (and to the extent permitted under that law) the provisions shall have effect with regard to taxable periods as specified.
Article 30
Termination
1.  This Convention shall remain in force until terminated by one of the Contracting States. Either Contracting State may terminate this Convention, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end of any calendar year beginning after the expiry of five years from the date of entry into force of this Convention. In such event, this Convention shall cease to have effect:
(a)
in Ecuador:
in respect of taxes on income obtained and amounts to be paid, credited to account, made available or recorded as an expense, on or after 1st January of the immediately following calendar year; and
(b)
in the United Kingdom:
(i)
in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after 1st January of the immediately following calendar year;
(ii)
in respect of income tax and capital gains tax, for any year of assessment beginning on or after 6th April next following the date on which the notice is given;
(iii)
in respect of corporation tax, for any financial year beginning on or after 1st April next following the date on which the notice is given.
2.  A Contracting State shall provide any information that has been requested by the other Contracting State before the day in which the termination becomes effective, provided that the request was received before such day and notwithstanding that such information may be gathered or delivered after that day.
3.  Contracting States shall remain bound by the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 25 with respect to any information obtained under the Convention, even after its termination becomes effective.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Convention.
Done in duplicate at Quito on this 6th day of August 2024 in the English and Spanish languages, both texts being equally authoritative.
For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland For the Government of the Republic of Ecuador
Baroness Chapman of Darlington Gabriela Sommerfeld
PROTOCOL
At the signing of the Convention between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Ecuador for the elimination of double taxation with respect to taxes on income and on capital gains and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance (hereinafter referred to as “the convention”), the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Ecuador have agreed upon the following provisions which shall form an integral part of the Convention.
1.  In relation to sub-paragraph a) of paragraph 3 of Article 2, it is understood that taxes on inheritances, gifts and similar gratuitous transfers of capital are excluded from the definition of “Ecuadorian tax”.
2.  In relation to sub-paragraphs a) and b) of paragraph 1 of Article 3, it is understood that nothing in this Convention shall prejudice the position of either Contracting State with regard to any issues concerning territorial sovereignty, sovereignty over maritime areas or any other issues concerning the law of the sea, including the compatibility of that position with international law.
3.  In relation to sub-paragraph j) of paragraph 1 of Article 3, it is understood that in the case of the United Kingdom the term “pension scheme” means pension schemes (other than a social security scheme) registered under Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004, including pension funds or pension schemes arranged through insurance companies and unit trusts where the unit holders are exclusively pension schemes.
The Competent Authorities may agree to include in the above, pension schemes of identical or substantially similar economic or legal nature which are introduced by way of statute or legislation in the United Kingdom after the date of signature of the Convention.
4.  In relation to paragraph 2 of Article 6, it is understood that the term “rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources” includes rights granted by Ecuador or one of its statutory bodies under:
(a)
services contracts for the exploration or extraction of hydrocarbons (currently covered by Chapter I, Title V of the Regulations for the Application of the Internal Taxation Regime Law);
(b)
risk-bearing specific services contracts (currently covered by Article 253 of the Regulations for the Application of the Internal Taxation Regime Law);
(c)
contractor-financed integrated services contracts (currently covered by unnumbered Article after Article 253 of the Regulations for the Application of the Internal Taxation Regime Law); or
(d)
any other contractual arrangement of a similar nature where agreed by the Competent Authorities.
It is further understood in relation to paragraph 2 of Article 6 that property accessory to immovable property includes equipment used in mineral and oil exploitation.
5.  In relation to paragraph 3 of Article 7, it is understood that the provision only determines which expenses should be attributed to the permanent establishment for purposes of determining the profits attributable to that permanent establishment. It does not deal with the issue of whether those expenses, once attributed, are deductible when computing the taxable income of the permanent establishment since the conditions for the deductibility of expenses are a matter to be determined by domestic law, subject to the rules of Article 23 (Non-discrimination).
6.  Nothing in this Convention shall prevent a Contracting State from taxing profits, according to the laws of that State, derived from non-transport activities of ships or aircraft, confined solely to places in that State. The term “non-transport activities of ships or aircraft” referred to herein includes fumigation, dredging, fishing, and surveying and if such activities are conducted in a place or places in a Contracting State, they are to be treated as confined solely to places in that State. The term “confined solely to places in that other State” includes voyages that start and end at the same port or airport, or into different ports or airports in that State, even if part of the transport takes place outside that State (without stopping at a port or airport in a different State).
7.  In relation to paragraph 2 of Article 9, it is understood that a Contracting State is obliged to make an adjustment pursuant to that paragraph only if that Contracting State agrees that the adjustment made by the other Contracting State is justified both in the principle contained in paragraph 1 of that Article and as regards the amount assessed under such principle.
8.  In relation to Article 10, it is understood that the term “paid” has a wide meaning and includes the fulfilment of an obligation to put funds at the disposal of a shareholder in the manner required by contract or custom.
9.  In relation to Article 10(2)(a)(iv), Ecuadorian resident companies must comply with the duty to report the details of the ownership chain up to its ultimate beneficial owners in accordance with the requirements of the law, regulations, and secondary legislation of Ecuador. It is understood that where the relevant information mentioned in this paragraph has been reported or there is no requirement for an Ecuadorian resident company to report information, Article 10(2)(a)(iv) shall not apply.
10.  In relation to Articles 10 (excluding the reference to the “ultimate beneficial owner” in paragraph (2)(a)(iv)), 11, and 12, it is understood that the term “beneficial owner” shall be interpreted in accordance with the principles set out in the relevant Commentaries of the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital as it stood on 21 November 2017. For the purposes of this paragraph, the relevant commentaries include, as the context requires, paragraphs 12 to 12.7 of the Commentary to Article 10, paragraphs 9 to 11 of the Commentary to Article 11 and paragraphs 4 to 4.6 of the Commentary to Article 12.
11.  In relation to paragraph 3(c) of Article 11 it is understood that the term “financial institution” means:
(a)
a bank or other enterprise substantially deriving its profits by raising debt finance in the financial markets or by taking deposits at interest and using those funds in carrying on a business of providing finance;
(b)
a regulated insurance company
(c)
a regulated investment fund; and
(d)
any other entity or category of entity as may be agreed by the Competent Authorities as being reasonably understood to be a financial institution.
12.  In relation to Article 19, Contracting State is understood to include, if it is Ecuador, any statutory body that falls under the definition provided by Article 225 of the Constitution of the Republic of Ecuador.
13.  In relation to paragraph 6 of Article 23 it is understood that a national of Ecuador resident in the United Kingdom is entitled to personal allowances, reliefs and reductions equivalent to those available to a United Kingdom national who is also resident in the United Kingdom.
14.  Having regard to the Commentary to Article 1 of the OECD model tax convention, as it may be revised from time to time, it is understood that this Convention shall not be interpreted to mean that a Contracting State is prevented from applying its domestic legal provisions on the prevention of tax evasion or tax avoidance where those provisions are used to challenge arrangements which constitute an abuse of the Convention.
15.  It is further understood that an abuse of the Convention takes place where a main purpose for entering into certain transactions or arrangements is to secure a more favourable tax position and obtaining that more favourable treatment in these circumstances would be contrary to the object and purpose of the relevant provisions of the Convention.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed this Convention.
Done in duplicate at Quito on this 6th day of August 2024 in the English and Spanish languages, both texts being equally authoritative.
For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland For the Government of the Republic of Ecuador
Baroness Chapman of Darlington Gabriela Sommerfeld
URL_Of_PAGE:
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukdsi/2024/9780348265514/note
EXPLANATORY NOTE
(This note is not part of the Order)
The Schedule to this Order contains a Convention and Protocol (“the Arrangements”) between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ecuador dealing with the elimination of double taxation with respect to taxes on income and on capital and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance and assisting international tax enforcement. This Order brings the Arrangements into effect.
The Arrangements aim to eliminate the double taxation of income and gains arising in one country and paid to residents of the other country. This is done by allocating the taxing rights that each country has under its domestic law over the same income and gains, and by providing relief from double taxation. There are also specific measures which combat discriminatory tax treatment and provide for assistance in international tax enforcement.
Article 1 provides for citation.
Article 2 makes a declaration as to the effect and content of the Arrangements.
The Arrangements will enter into force on the date of the later of the notifications by each country of the completion of its legislative procedures and will take effect in each country in accordance with Article 29 of the Convention.
The date of entry into force will, in due course, be published in the London, Edinburgh and Belfast Gazettes.
A Tax Information and Impact Note has not been produced for the Order as it gives effect to a double taxation agreement. Double taxation agreements impose no obligations on taxpayers, rather they seek to eliminate double taxation and fiscal evasion.